Deed 2- Deed for a Sale of Land

Deed for a Sale of Land
Code Number: 12/A
Name & Address: A.C. Perera
: No. 15, Galle Road, Dehiwala.
Consideration: Rs. 18,500,000/=
Jurisdiction: Colombo
Land Registry (Duplicate): Ratmalana
Local Authority Area of the Land: Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia Municipal Council
Grama Niladari Division: Dehiwala East
Divisional Secretary Division: Dehiwala
Date: 15/03/2018
Anura C. Perera
Attorney-at-Law & Notary Public
No. 15, Galle Road, Dehiwala.
PRIOR REGISTRATION: R 1234/56
DEED OF TRANSFER
No: 4321
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME THAT I, ROHAN JAYAWARDENA (holder of National Identity card No. 551234567V) of No. 22, Templers Road, Mount Lavinia in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter sometimes called and referred to as the “VENDOR” which term or expression as herein used shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said ROHAN JAYAWARDENA his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns).
-: S E N D G R E E T I N G S:-
WHEREAS the said vendor is seized and possessed of all that divided and defined allotment of land marked lot 5 depicted in plan No. 850 dated 2010.06.15 made by L.S. Fernando, Licensed Surveyor under and by virtue of Deed No. 980 dated 12.05.2011 attested by S. Mendis, Notary Public which is morefully described in the schedule hereto.
AND WHEREAS the said VENDOR has agreed with FATIMA ISMAIL (Holder of National Identity Card No. 706543210V) of No. 5, Frazer Avenue, Dehiwala in the said Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter sometimes called and referred to as the VENDEE which term shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said FATIMA ISMAIL for the absolute sale and transfer unto the said VENDEE and their heirs, executors, administrators and assignees all that divided and defined allotment of land which is morefully described in the schedule hereto for a sum of RUPEES EIGHTEEN MILLION FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND (Rs. 18,500,000/=) of lawful money of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
NOW KNOW YE AND THESE PRESENTS WITNESS that the said VENDOR in pursuance of the said Agreement and in consideration of the said sum of RUPEES EIGHTEEN MILLION FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND (Rs. 18,500,000/=) of lawful money of the said Republic of Sri Lanka well and truly paid to the VENDOR by the said Vendee (the receipt whereof the VENDOR do hereby expressly admit and acknowledge) doth hereby sell, grant, convey, assign, transfer, set over and assure unto the said VENDEE the said allotment of land morefully described in the Schedule hereto together with all and singular the rights, ways, privileges, easements advantages, servitudes and appurtenances whatsoever thereunto belonging or appertaining or usually held used occupied enjoyed therewith or reputed or known as part and parcel thereof and all the estate right title interest property benefit claim and demand whatsoever of the said VENDOR into upon or out of the said allotment of land and every part thereof.
TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said allotment of land hereby sold granted conveyed and assured or expressed or intended so to be together with all the rights and appurtenances thereunto belonging unto the VENDEE absolutely and forever.
AND the said VENDOR doth hereby covenant promise and agree with the said VENDEE, that the said VENDEE shall and may at all times hereafter peaceably and quietly possess and enjoy the said allotments of land hereby sold and conveyed and receive the rents income issues and profits thereof without any interruption or disturbance by the said VENDOR or any other person or persons whomsoever lawfully claiming any right or title thereto and that the said VENDOR has good right and full power and lawful and absolute authority to transfer and convey the said allotment of land morefully described in the Schedule hereto in the manner aforesaid and that the same are free from all encumbrances whatsoever and not subject to any mortgage charge lien seizure sequestration partition or other proceedings or encumbrance whatsoever and that the said VENDOR has not at any time heretofore made done or committed or been party or privy to any act deed matter or thing whereby or by means or reason whereof the said allotment of land hereby granted conveyed and assured or expressed or intended so to be or any part or parties the said VENDOR shall and will at all times hereafter warrant and defend the title to the said allotment of land morefully described in the Schedule hereto and every part or portion thereof unto the said VENDEE against any and every person or persons whomsoever and that the said VENDOR shall and will at all times hereafter at the request and cost of the said VENDEE make doth and execute or cause or procure to be done executed and perfected all such further and other acts deeds assurances matters and things for better and more perfectly and satisfactorily and effectually conveying assuring and vesting the said allotment of land morefully described in the Schedule hereto unto and in the said VENDEE as by it shall or may be reasonably required.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said VENDOR doth hereunto and to two others from the same tenor and date as these presents set his hand at Dehiwala on this Fifteenth (15th) day of March Two Thousand and Eighteen (2018).
THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO:-
ALL that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 5 in Plan No. 850 dated 2010.06.15 made by L.S. Fernando, Licensed Surveyor of the land called GREEN ACRES together with everything standing thereon bearing assessment No. 15/2, Hill Street, situated at Dehiwala within the Municipal Council limits of Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia in the Palle Pattu of Salpiti Korale in the District of Colombo Western Province and which said lot 5 is bounded on the:
NORTH: by the property of K. Sirisena
EAST: by Hill Street
SOUTH: by Lot 4 in the same plan
WEST: by property claimed by Mohamed Ali and containing in
EXTENT: TEN DECIMAL FIVE NOUGHT PERCHES (A: 0-R: 0-P: 10.50)
According to the Plan No. 850 aforesaid and registered under title R 1234/56 at the land registry at Ratmalana.