Deed 14 - DEED OF GIFT
Deed of Gift No. 2: (Spouse to Spouse - Absolute and Irrevocable)
DEED OF GIFT

F. Z. Ismail
Attorney-at-Law & Notary Public
No. 30, Galle Face Court, Colombo 03
Prior Registration:- Condominium Plan No. 150 registered in Volume C/55 Folio 12

DEED OF GIFT
No. 1150
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT MOHAMED RIZWAN of No. 50/A, Marine Drive, Colombo 06 (hereinafter called and referred to as the Donor) in consideration of the natural love and affection which the said Donor has and bears unto his wife AALIYAH RIZWAN also of No. 50/A, Marine Drive, Colombo 06 (hereinafter called and referred to as the Donee) and for diverse other good causes and considerations hereunto specially moving do hereby give grant convey assign transfer set over and assure unto the said Donee as a gift inter vivos absolute and irrevocable, the property in the Schedule hereto fully described and together with all rights privileges easements servitudes and appurtenances whatsoever to the said premises belonging or used or enjoyed therewith or reputed or known as part and parcel thereof and all the estate right title interest property claim and demand whatsoever of the said Donor of in to upon or out of the same.
TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said premises in the Schedule hereto fully described which are of the value of RUPEES EIGHTY MILLION (Rs. 80,000,000/-) unto the said Donee and her heirs executors and administrators forever.
AND the said Donor does hereby for himself his heirs executors and administrators covenant and declare to and with the said Donee that the said Donor now has good right to convey the said premises in the Schedule hereto fully described in the manner aforesaid and that the same are free from encumbrances whatsoever and that the said Donor and his aforewritten shall at all times hereafter warrant and defend the title to the said premises unto the said Donee against any person or persons whomsoever.
AND the said Donee AALIYAH RIZWAN does hereby thankfully accept the gift hereby made.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said Donor and the said Donee do hereunto and to two others of the same tenor and date as these presents set their respective hands at Colombo on this Twentieth (20th) day of December Two Thousand and Twenty-Five (2025).
THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO-
ALL that Condominium Parcel being the apartment unit bearing No. 10-B on the 10th Floor of the building known as “Ocean Towers” bearing Assessment No. 85, Station Road, Colombo 06, forming part of the Condominium Property depicted in Condominium Plan No. 150 dated 05.01.2010 made by P. U. Weerasinghe, Licensed Surveyor. The said parcel consists of a floor area of One Thousand Five Hundred (1500) Square Feet together with the right to one car parking space in the common area designated as P-45, and together with an undivided share in the common elements of the said Condominium Property as set out in the said Condominium Plan.
We do hereby declare that we are well acquainted with the Donor and the Donee and know their proper name, occupation, and residence.
WITNESSES
A. Cassim
S. Hamid
NOTARY PUBLIC
I, F. Z. Ismail of Colombo in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Notary Public do hereby certify and attest that the foregoing instrument having been duly read over and explained by me the said Notary to the within-named Donor MOHAMED RIZWAN and to the said Donee AALIYAH RIZWAN, the executants therein-named who are known to me, in the presence of Abdul Cassim and Shiraz Hamid both of Colombo, the subscribing witnesses thereto, the same was signed by the said Donor and Donee and by the said witnesses and also by me the said Notary all being present together at the same time at Colombo on this Twentieth (20th) day of December Two Thousand and Twenty-Five (2025).
WHICH I ATTEST
F.Z. Ismail NOTARY PUBLIC