DEED 23- LEASE
SAMITH THUSHARA GALLAGE 

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
 NOTARY PUBLIC,

TEL:0772988504

 
PRIOR REGISTRATION: L 296/05 
 
LEASE AGREEMENT
No: 2241

Rs.3,075,000/- 

Know all men by these presents that

THIS INDENTURE OF LEASE made and entered into at HIKKADUWA ON THIS TWENTY FOURTH DAY OF FEBRUARY TWO THOUSAND TWENTY FOUR (24.02.2024) by and between KITHULGODAGAMAGE DON SARATHCHANDRA VINIRAJA ABEYSUNDERA (Holder of Sri Lankan Passport Number: N8944919 and Sri Lankan National Identity Card No: 482472770V) of No: 35, De Mel Avenue, Koswaththa (hereinafter called and referred to as the Lessor) which term as hereinafter used shall where the context so requires or admits means and include the said KITHULGODAGAMAGE DON SARATHCHANDRA VINIRAJA ABEYSUNDERA his heirs executors administrators and assigns of the on part and ARNORLD LEON JAYASINGHE (Holder of NIC No: 662560847V) and STEVE BLINDLEY JAYASINGHE (Holder of NIC No: 931294148V) of of No.63, Old Kottawa Road, Mirihana, Nugegoda (hereinafter called and referred to as the Lessees) which term as hereinafter used shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said ARNORLD LEON JAYASINGHE and STEVE BLINDLEY JAYASINGHE assigns of the Lessees.
 
WITNESSETH 

AND WHEREAS the Lessee in desirous of obtaining a lease of the land and premises more fully described in the Schedule hereto from the Lessor the period of Two Years (02 Years) commencing from 25th Day of February 2024. 

AND WEHEREAS the Lessee in desirous of obtaining a lease of the land, premises more fully described in the Schedule and related substances mentioned in the inventory hereto from the Lessor the period of Two Years (02 Years) commencing from 25th Day of February 2024 and ending 24th Day of February 2026. 

AND WHEREAS the Lessor is desirous of leasing out the premises more fully described in the schedule and inventory here only for the business purpose of the Lessee. 

NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH that in pursuance of the said agreement in consideration of the Lease Rent hereinafter the renovation and repairs hereinafter agreed upon and the conditions, covenants agreements hereinafter contained on the part of the lessee to paid, done, observed and performed, the lessor doth hereby let, lease and demise unto the lessee foe and during the term of Two Year (02 Year) commencing from 25th Day of February 2024 and ending 24th Day of February 2026. 

YIELDING AND PAYING therefore unto the Lessor the lease rent for the term hereby granted in the manner hereinafter set out. 

AND it is agreed by and between the said Lessor and the Lessees as follows: 

01. The term of the Lease shall be for a period of Two Years (02 Years) commencing from the 25th Day of February 2024 and ending 24th Day of February 2026. 

02. The parties agreed that the aggregate rental for the period of two years should be in the following manner, 

• For the period of First year commencing from 25th day of Fbeuary 2024 ending 24th day of February 2025 and 1st year rental should be One point Five Million (Rs.1500,000/-) 
• For the period of Second year commencing from 24th day of January 2025 ending 24th day of January 2026 and 1st year rental should be One point Five Million and Seventy Five Thousand (Rs.1,575,000/-) 

03. To pay the refundable deposit of One Hundred and Twenty Five Thousand Rupees (Rs.125,000/-) should be made on commencing the lessee period. Which should be refunded to the said Lessees without interest at the termination of this Lease Agreement or in the event this Lease Agreement is to have been treated as terminated or owing to any breach of the conditions herein mentioned by the Parties hereof after deducting any sum of money due to the said Lessor from the said Lessees as damages or arrears of rent or arrears of any utility bills. It is further agreed that the said Lessees shall not have the right to claim for the said Security deposit before the completion of 60 months if this Lease Agreement is to be terminated before the intended period on the request of the said Lessee or it has to be treated as terminated for any breach of conditions by the said Lessee. However if this Agreement had to have been treated as terminated for any breach of conditions by the said Lessor the said Security deposit shall be returned to the said Lessee by the said Lessor forthwith subject to the conditions of deductions of any arrears of rent and utility bills or damages as aforesaid.

03. The Lessees agreed to pay 1st Year Rental payment One Point Five Million on 24th Day of February 2024 and also the Lessee agreed to pay the second year payment to a lessor’s on or before 25th February 2025. 

04. The Lessees will be able to sublet or assign directly or indirectly his interest in the lease or part with the possession of the demised premises or any part there and related substances including furniture mentioned in the inventory. 

05. Not to use demised premises for any other except the business purpose of the lessee. Especially not to use demised premises for any unlawful purpose. 

06. To pay the monthly water bill and electricity bill by the lessee during the agreed period of Two Years. 

07. To keep and maintain the demised premises and related things mentioned in the inventory in a tenantable clean and sanitary state order and condition and in strict conformity with the rules and by laws of the Hikkaduwa Urban Council affecting use of occupation of the demised premise and health and sanitation and keep the lessor indemnified against all suits persecuting fines and impositions whatsoever resulting from an breach or non-observance thereof. 

08. No to do or permit to suffer to be done in the premise anything which may at any time becomes a nuisance or annoyance to the occupants of the neighboring houses. 

09. To do the interior arrangements and decorations of the demised premises to suit the Lessee’s requirement at the expenses of the lessee and to remove all such items of at termination of these presents as aforesaid and restore the demised premised to its original condition with reasonable wear and tear excepted. 

10. Lessee should recover the damages may have been occurred on the said premises or any related substances mentioned in the inventory within the period of lease. 

11. The Lessor shall hand over to the Lessee vacant possession of the said premises and related substances mentioned in the inventory on 24th Day of February 2026. 

12. All matters not or not and adequately provided for in the lease agreement shall be decided by mutual cogent between both parties. 

13. The land and premises more fully described in the schedule does not apply to the Rent Act No.07 of 1972. 

In witness whereof the said Lessor and Lessee do here unto and three others of the same tenor date as these presents and said their hands at HIKKADUWA, ON THIS TWENTY FOURTH DAY OF FEBRUARY TWO THOUSAND TWENTY FOUR. (24.02.2024) 

The Schedule above Referred to:

All that amalgamated and defined allotment of land marked Lot A of the land Called Lot D & Lot E of Ambalame Watta Together with tress, plantations, Buildings and everything else standing at Patuwatha in Thiranagama and Dodandoowa in Grama Niladhari Division of Modara Patuwatha within the Urban Council area of Hikkaduwa and Hikkaduwa Divisonal Secretariat Division in Wellaboda Pattu in the District of Galle, Southern Province and which said Lot A is bounded on the, 

North West by: Lot C, 
North East by: Main Road from Galle to Colombo 
South East by: Lot F of same land 
South West by: Beach, 

And containing in the extent Thirty Seven decimal Zero Six Perches (00: A, 00: R, 37.06: P) including the building bearing Assessment No: 936 of Urban Council, Hikkaduwa. 

Wittiness 

Signed in the presence of us 
And we declare that we are 
Well acquainted with the within 
Name executants and know his 
Proper names occupations 
And residences.