Deed 13 - DEED OF GIFT
Deed of Gift No. 1: (Parent to Child - Absolute and Irrevocable)
DEED OF GIFT

K. S. Ranasinghe
Attorney-at-Law & Notary Public
No. 15, Temple Road, Kandy
Prior Registration:- L.R.O. Kandy Folio G/125/88

DEED OF GIFT
No. 789
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT GAMINI JAYASUNDARA of No. 21, Bahirawakanda, Kandy (hereinafter called and referred to as the Donor) in consideration of the natural love and affection which the said Donor has and bears unto his son ARJUNA JAYASUNDARA also of No. 21, Bahirawakanda, Kandy (hereinafter called and referred to as the Donee) and for diverse other good causes and considerations hereunto specially moving do hereby give grant convey assign transfer set over and assure unto the said Donee as a gift inter vivos absolute and irrevocable, the property in the Schedule hereto fully described and together with all rights privileges easements servitudes and appurtenances whatsoever to the said premises belonging or used or enjoyed therewith or reputed or known as part and parcel thereof and all the estate right title interest property claim and demand whatsoever of the said Donor of in to upon or out of the same.
TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said premises in the Schedule hereto fully described which are of the value of RUPEES FIFTY MILLION (Rs. 50,000,000/-) unto the said Donee and his heirs executors and administrators forever.
AND the said Donor does hereby for himself his heirs executors and administrators covenant and declare to and with the said Donee that the said Donor now has good right to convey the said premises in the Schedule hereto fully described in the manner aforesaid and that the same are free from encumbrances whatsoever and that the said Donor and his aforewritten have not made done or committed or been party or privy to any act deed matter or thing whereby or by reason whereof the said premises or any part or portion thereof are is can shall or may be impeached or encumbered in title charge estate or otherwise howsoever and that the said Donor and his aforewritten shall and will at all times hereafter warrant and defend the title to the said premises unto the said Donee against any person or persons whomsoever.
AND the said Donee ARJUNA JAYASUNDARA does hereby thankfully accept the gift hereby made.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said Donor and the said Donee do hereunto and to two others of the same tenor and date as these presents set their respective hands at Kandy on this Fifteenth (15th) day of November Two Thousand and Twenty-Five (2025).
THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO-
ALL that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot A depicted in Plan No. 1122 dated 10.06.2005 made by V. S. Gamage, Licensed Surveyor, of the land called “Mahaweli Uyana” situated at Aniwatta within the Municipal Council Limits of Kandy in Gangawata Korale, Kandy District, Central Province and which said Lot A is bounded on the NORTH by Public Road, on the EAST by property of N. K. Bandara, on the SOUTH by Lot B in the same plan, and on the WEST by property of S. Dissanayake, and containing in extent TWENTY PERCHES (A0.R0.P20.00) together with the house bearing Assessment No. 21 and everything standing thereon.
We do hereby declare that we are well acquainted with the Donor and the Donee and know their proper name, occupation, and residence.
WITNESSES
M. Silva
R. Fernando
NOTARY PUBLIC
I, K. S. Ranasinghe of Kandy in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Notary Public do hereby certify and attest that the foregoing instrument having been duly read over and explained by me the said Notary to the within-named Donor GAMINI JAYASUNDARA and to the said Donee ARJUNA JAYASUNDARA, the executants therein-named who are known to me, in the presence of Mahinda Silva of Kandy and Ravi Fernando of Peradeniya, the subscribing witnesses thereto, the same was signed by the said Donor and Donee and by the said witnesses and also by me the said Notary all being present together at the same time at Kandy on this Fifteenth (15th) day of November Two Thousand and Twenty-Five (2025). And I further certify that the Original bears one stamp of the value of Rs. 1/- and the stamp duty was paid by the Donee.
WHICH I ATTEST
K.S. Ranasinghe NOTARY PUBLIC