Deed 15 - DEED OF GIFT
Deed of Gift No. 3: (Parent to Child - Subject to Life Interest of Donor)
DEED OF GIFT

U. P. de Zoysa
Attorney-at-Law & Notary Public
No. 10, Lighthouse Street, Galle Fort
Prior Registration:- L.R.O. Galle Folio B/201/45

DEED OF GIFT
No. 55
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS THAT NALINI SILVA, a widow, of No. 44, Richmond Hill Road, Galle (hereinafter called and referred to as the Donor) in consideration of the natural love and affection which the said Donor has and bears unto her daughter ISHARA SILVA of No. 12, Park Road, Colombo 05 (hereinafter called and referred to as the Donee) and for diverse other good causes and considerations hereunto specially moving do hereby give grant convey assign transfer set over and assure unto the said Donee as a gift inter vivos absolute and irrevocable, subject to the life interest of the Donor herein reserved, the property in the Schedule hereto fully described and together with all rights privileges easements servitudes and appurtenances whatsoever to the said premises belonging or used or enjoyed therewith.
TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said premises in the Schedule hereto fully described which are of the value of RUPEES THIRTY MILLION (Rs. 30,000,000/-) unto the said Donee and her aforewritten subject nevertheless to the life interest of the Donor, the said NALINI SILVA, who shall have the full and unfettered right to possess, use, occupy and enjoy the said premises and to take and receive the rents, profits and income thereof for the full term of her natural life, and from and after the demise of the said Donor, the said premises shall devolve on the said Donee and her heirs, executors and administrators absolutely and forever.
AND the said Donor does hereby for herself her heirs executors and administrators covenant and declare to and with the said Donee that the said Donor now has good right to convey the said premises in the Schedule hereto fully described in the manner aforesaid and that the said Donor and her aforewritten shall and will at all times hereafter warrant and defend the title to the said premises unto the said Donee against any person or persons whomsoever.
AND the said Donee ISHARA SILVA does hereby thankfully accept the gift hereby made subject to the condition aforesaid.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said Donor and the said Donee do hereunto and to two others of the same tenor and date as these presents set their respective hands at Galle on this Tenth (10th) day of January Two Thousand and Twenty-Six (2026).
THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO-
ALL that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 7 in Plan No. 980 dated 15.08.1995 made by G. K. Pathirana, Licensed Surveyor, of the land called “Kurunduwatta” situated at Wackwella within the Municipal Council Limits of Galle in the Four Gravets of Galle, Galle District, Southern Province and which said Lot 7 is bounded on the NORTH by Lot 6, on the EAST by Main Road, on the SOUTH by property of K. Premadasa, and on the WEST by Canal Reservation, and containing in extent FIFTEEN PERCHES (A0.R0.P15.00) together with the buildings and everything standing thereon.
We do hereby declare that we are well acquainted with the Donor and the Donee and know their proper name, occupation, and residence.
WITNESSES
D. Liyanage
K. Samarawickrama
NOTARY PUBLIC
I, U. P. de Zoysa of Galle in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Notary Public do hereby certify and attest that the foregoing instrument having been duly read over and explained by me the said Notary to the within-named Donor NALINI SILVA and to the said Donee ISHARA SILVA, the executants therein-named who are known to me, in the presence of Danushka Liyanage and Kamal Samarawickrama both of Galle, the subscribing witnesses thereto, the same was signed by the said Donor and Donee and by the said witnesses and also by me the said Notary all being present together at the same time at Galle on this Tenth (10th) day of January Two Thousand and Twenty-Six (2026).
WHICH I ATTEST
U.P. de Zoysa NOTARY PUBLIC