DEED 27 - AGREEMENT TO TRANSFER
SAMITH THUSHARA GALLAGE 

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
 NOTARY PUBLIC,
FORT, GALLE. 
TEL:0772988504
 
PRIOR REGISTRATION:N 148/124

DEED OF TRANSFER
 NO: 3547
Rs. /-
Know all men by these presents that 

I, NARIGAMA LOKUGE CHATHURA DILAN KUMARASIRI [Holder of NIC No. 872530789V] of CHANDRAPAYA, WAWLAGODA, HIKKADUWA represent by his Attorney PILANA VITHANAGE NILMINI KANTHI DEWIKA [Holder of N.I.C.No. 196058510017] of CHANDRAPAYA, WAWLAGODA, HIKKADUWA (Appointed by Special Power of Attorney dated 09.03.2019 attested by Samith Thushara Gallage , Attorney-At-Law, Notary Public, Leyn Baan Street, Fort, Galle and registered under the Folio No. 49 of the Day Book No. 1892 (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the said Vendors) for and in consideration of the sum of RUPEES EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND (Rs:800,000/-) of lawful money of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka well and truly paid to me by PILANA VITHANAGE NILMINI KANTHI DEWIKA [Holder of N.I.C.No. 196058510017] of CHANDRAPAYA, WAWLAGODA, HIKKADUWA (hereinafter sometimes referred to as the said Purchaser his heirs executors administrators and assigns) the land and premises fully described in the schedule hereto together with all and singular the rights ways easement servitudes appurtenances and advantages whatsoever to the said land and premises belonging or in any wise appertaining or usually held occupied used or enjoyed therewith or reputed or known as part or parcel thereof together with all the estate right title interest property claim and demand whatsoever, of I said Vendor.

In to upon or out of the said land and premises and every part or portion thereof and together with all the title deeds vouchers and other writings therewith held or relating thereto which said land and premises have been held used and possessed by me the said Vendor. 

TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said land and premises in the schedule hereto fully described with the buildings, trees and plantations standing thereon hereby sold and conveyed or expressed or intended so to be together with all and singular the appurtenances thereto belonging unto the said Purchaser company its successors, agents and assigns absolutely and forever.

And I the said Vendor for ourselves, our heirs executors and administrators do hereby covenant and agree with the said Purchaser her heirs executors, administrators and assigns that the said purchaser shall and may at all times hereafter peaceably and quietly posses and enjoy the said land and premises in the schedule hereto fully described and receive the rents and profits thereof without any interruption or disturbance by me the said Vendors or our aforewritten or any other person or persons whomsoever lawfully claiming any right or title there to and that we the said vendors have good right to convey and assign the said land and premises in manner aforesaid and that the same are free from any encumbrance and that we the said Vendors and our aforewritten shall and will at all times hereafter warrant and defend the title to the said land and premises and every part or portion thereof unto the said purchaser and his aforewritten against any and every person or persons whomsoever and shall and will at times hereafter at the request cost and expense of the said purchaser or her afore written do and execute or cause to be done and executed all such further and other acts deeds assurances and things as the said purchaser shall or may reasonably require for more perfectly and effectually conveying and assuring the said land and premises or any part or portion thereof unto the purchaser and aforewritten.

IN WITNESS WHERE OF I the said Vendor NARIGAMA LOKUGE CHATHURA DILAN KUMARASIRI by his Attorney, PILANA VITHANAGE NILMINI KANTHI DEWIKA and Purchaser PILANA VITHANAGE NILMINI KANTHI DEWIKA do hereunto and the two others of the same tenor and date as these presents set our hands at Hikkaduwa on this TENTH DAY OF NOVEBER TWO THOUSAND TWENTY TWO (10.11.2022). 

THE SCHEDULE ABOUE REFERRED TO

All that the undivided 1/8 share of land called WELIGODALLA ADDARA KUMBURA situated at Keradewala in Madolduwa Grama Niladari division of Baddegama Pradeshiya Sabha, Baddegama Devisional Secretariat Division in Gangabada Pattuwa South, of Galle District of Southern Province bounded on the
North and East By: Pady filed claimed by Majuwana Gamagei Margiris De Silva 
South By: Embiligaha Liyadda, 
West By: Godalla and containing extent Thirty Kuruni’s Being property held and possessed by marital inheritance right of my loving Yaddehigeowita alias Yakdehigewatta 

Being property held and possessed by me by deed of gift of No 1397 dated 10.06.2018 attested by Samith Thushra Gallage Notary public

. 
Signed in the presence of us .........................................
and we declare that we are ............................ - (By his Attorney) 
well acquainted with the within 
name executants and know their 
proper names occupations .....................................
and residence …..…………… ............................... - (By her Attorney)
 
Witnesses

1.

2. 

 NOTARY PUBLIC 

I, ........................, Notary Public of No. ..................., Galle in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in the Judicial Zone of Galle do hereby certify and attest that the foregoing instrument having been read over by me, the said Notary, to the said executant ......................., the Attorney holder of the said Vendors, .................. and ................... who has signed this deed illegibly in Sinhala Characters and affixed his thumb of left hand impression in the presence of ..................... (Holder of NIC No. ..............V) of ‘............... and ................ (Holder of N.I.C.NO...............) of ..................., the subscribing witnesses hereto, and who signed illegibly and illegibly in English characters respectively, and the same was signed by the said executants, the said witnesses and also by me the said Notary, in my presence and in the presence of one another, all being present at the same time on the Twenty Seventh day of October Two Thousand Twenty Two (27.10.2022) at Galle. 

And I certify that, the Vendors are alive at the execution of these presence and the executant and witnesses are known to me and I have checked their identity by the inspection of their National Identity Card and prior to the execution of the foregoing instrument, I have inspected the identity cards of the executant.

And I further certify and attest that, the stamp duty to the value of Rupees ......................... (Rs....................../-) was paid to the credit of the Southern Provincial Council in the State Bank of Ceylon in proof of which the original of such stamp duty paying in slip No. BC/SD/SP/.............. dated ................ is affixed to the duplicate of this instrument and, copies are affixed to the original and the protocol and to the original of this instrument bears one stamp of the value of Rs.1/-. 

And I further certify that, the above mentioned consideration was paid by the Bank draft bearing No. ............. and dated ............ of Seylan Bank, Hikkaduwa Branch by the Purchaser Company to the Vendors and the Vendors admit and acknowledge that through their Attorney.

And I further certify and attest, that on the first page in line number twelfth (12) the number ‘10’ was written over in black ink.

I further certify and attest that, the power of attorney was duly registered and it was not been revoked or cancelled and I have annexed a true copy of the registered Power of Attorney to the Original of this Deed of Transfer. 

WHICH I ATTEST

Date of Attestation 
27th Day of October 2022
NOTARY PUBLIC.
 I, RUPASENA KOSWATTA, Notary Public of Galle in the Democratic Socialist Republic of
 Sri Lanka do hereby certify that the foregoing instrument was duly read over and explained by me to JOTHIRATHNA KADIRAHETTIARACHCHI, the Attorney holder of the said VENDORS, JOHN HENRY GOODCHILD and