Deed 17 - MORTGAGE OF IMMOVABLE PROPERTY

Deed of Mortgage: (Individual Mortgagor to a Bank)
MORTGAGE OF IMMOVABLE PROPERTY

S. D. Perera
Attorney-at-Law & Notary Public
No. 45, Flower Road, Colombo 07.
Prior Registration – L.R.O. Colombo Folio D/112/56

MORTGAGE BOND
No. 950
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS shall come KASUN JAYAWARDENA (holder of National Identity Card No. 851234567V) of No. 30, Templers Road, Mount Lavinia, in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter called and referred to as “the Mortgagor” which term or expression shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said KASUN JAYAWARDENA his heirs executors and administrators).
S E N D G R E E T I N G S
WHEREAS:
a) The Mortgagor is seized and possessed of and or otherwise well and sufficiently entitled to the land and premises more fully described in the Schedule hereto;
b) The Mortgagor has requested SAMPATH BANK PLC, a public limited company duly incorporated in Sri Lanka and having its Head Office at No. 110, Sir James Peiris Mawatha, Colombo 02 (hereinafter called and referred to as “the Mortgagee” or “the Bank” which term or expression shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said Sampath Bank PLC its successors and assigns) to grant a housing loan facility of Rupees Twenty-Five Million (Rs. 25,000,000/-) (hereinafter referred to as “the Facility”), which the Bank has agreed to do subject to the Mortgagor executing these presents as security for the due repayment of the said Facility with interest and other charges.
NOW KNOW YE AND THESE PRESENTS WITNESSETH that in consideration of the matters aforesaid, the Mortgagor does hereby covenant with the Mortgagee to pay to the Bank on demand all sums of money now or hereafter to become due and payable under the said Facility.
AND as security for such payment as aforesaid, the Mortgagor does hereby specially mortgage and hypothecate to and with the said Mortgagee as a primary mortgage free from any and all encumbrances whatsoever the entirety of the property described in the Schedule hereto together with all buildings, erections, rights, easements, and appurtenances thereof (hereinafter referred to as “the mortgaged property”).
AND the Mortgagor does hereby covenant with the said Mortgagee as follows:
That the Mortgagor has good and legal right to mortgage the said property and that the same is free from any encumbrance or seizure.
That the Mortgagor shall repay the said Facility together with interest thereon in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Letter of Offer dated 01/10/2025 issued by the Bank.
That the Mortgagor shall keep the mortgaged property in a proper state of repair and insure the same against loss or damage by fire and other perils in the joint names of the Mortgagor and the Mortgagee for its full insurable value.
That the Mortgagor shall regularly pay all rates, taxes, and assessments in respect of the mortgaged property.
That if the Mortgagor shall default in the repayment of the said Facility or breach any covenant herein contained, it shall be lawful for the Mortgagee to exercise its rights under the law, including the right to sell the mortgaged property by public auction to recover all outstanding dues.
That this mortgage bond shall be a continuing security for the total amount ultimately due to the Bank under the said Facility, provided that the total amount recoverable hereunder shall not exceed the principal sum of Rupees Twenty-Five Million (Rs. 25,000,000/-) together with interest, costs and other charges.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said Mortgagor has set his hand hereunto and to two others of the same tenor as these Presents in Colombo on this Fifteenth (15th) day of October Two Thousand and Twenty-Five (2025).
THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO:
ALL that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 12 depicted in Plan No. 4580 dated 12.05.1998 made by L. Peiris, Licensed Surveyor, of the land called “Idama” situated at Mount Lavinia within the Municipal Council Limits of Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia in Salpiti Korale, Colombo District, Western Province and which said Lot is bounded on the NORTH by Lot 11, on the EAST by Templers Road, on the SOUTH by property of N. de Silva, and on the WEST by property of A. Fernando, and containing in extent TEN PERCHES (A0.R0.P10.00) together with the dwelling house bearing Assessment No. 30 and all else standing thereon.
Signed by the Mortgagor
K. Jayawardena KASUN JAYAWARDENA
Witnesses:
R. Silva
S. Fernando
NOTARY PUBLIC I, S. D. Perera of Colombo, Notary Public, do hereby certify and attest that the foregoing instrument was duly executed in my presence at Colombo on this 15th day of October 2025 by the Mortgagor Kasun Jayawardena, who is known to me, in the presence of the subscribing witnesses.
WHICH I ATTEST S.D. Perera NOTARY PUBLIC