Deed 1 - Deed for a Sale of Land

Navinda Navishadhi Pathirage 
Attorney-at-Law & Notary Public
No.585 A1/1,Kotte Road,Pittakotte
 

PRIOR REGISTRATION:M 34689/526, 620

DEED OF TRANSFER

No: 

TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME THAT I, KAVINDI WIEJRATNE (holder of National Identity card No. 633492334V) of No. A/64, garden lane, Kalubowila in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter sometimes called and referred to as the “VR” which term or expression as herein used shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said KAVINDI WIEJRATNE her heirs, executors, administrators and assigns).

-: S E N D G R E E T I N G S:-

WHEREAS the said vendor is seized and possessed of all that divided and defined allotment of land marked lot 1 together with the right of way over lot 3 depicted in plan No.210 dated 2001.12.21 made by Ishara Mahanama, Licensed Surveyor under and by virtue of Deed No. 600 dated 09.3.2002 attested by the Notary attesting these presents which is morefully described in the schedule hereto. 

AND WHEREAS the said VENDOR has agreed with ANOMA PILAPITIYA (Holder of National Identity Card No. 637611505V) of No 28, Delkanda, Nugegoda in the said Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter sometimes called and referred to as the VENDEE which term shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said ANOMA PILAPITIYA for the absolute sale and transfer unto the said VENDEE and their heirs, executors, administrators and assignees all that divided and defined allotment of land marked lot 2 together with the right of way over lot 6 depicted in Plan No. 635 dated 2008.10.15 made by Ishara Mahanama , Licensed surveyor which is morefully described in the schedule hereto for a sum of RUPEES TWENTY MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND (20,800,000/=) of lawful money of the Republic of Sri Lanka.

NOW KNOW YE AND THESE PRESENTS WITNESS that the said VENDOR in pursuance of the said Agreement and in consideration of the said sum of RUPEES TWENTY ION EIGHT HUNDRED THOU (Rs. 20,800,000/=) of lawful money of the said Republic of Sri Lanka well and truly paid to the VENDOR by the said Vendee(the receipt whereof the VENDOR do hereby expressly admit and acknowledge) doth hereby sell ,grant, convey, assign, transfer, set over and assure unto the said VENDEE the said allotment of land morefully described in the Schedule hereto together with all and singular the rights, ways, privileges, easements advantages, servitudes and appurtenances whatsoever thereunto belonging or appertaining or usually held used occupied enjoyed therewith or reputed or known as part and parcel thereof and all the estate right title interest property benefit claim and demand whatsoever of the said VENDOR into upon or out of the said allotment of land and every part thereof.

TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the said allotment of land hereby sold granted conveyed and assured or expressed or intended so to be together with all the rights and appurtenances thereunto belonging unto the VENDEE absolutely and forever.

AND the said VENDOR doth hereby covenant promise and agree with the said VENDEE, that the said VENDEE shall and may at all times hereafter peaceably and quietly possess and enjoy the said allotments of land hereby sold and conveyed and receive the rents income issues and profits thereof without any interruption or disturbance by the said VENDOR or any other person or persons whomsoever lawfully claiming any right or title thereto and that the said VENDOR has good right and full power and lawful and absolute authority to transfer and convey the said allotment of land morefully described in the Schedule hereto in the manner aforesaid and that the same are free from all encumbrances whatsoever and not subject to any mortgage charge lien seizure sequestration partition or other proceedings or encumbrance whatsoever and that the said VENDOR has not at any time heretofore made done or committed or been party or privy to any act deed matter or thing whereby or by means or reason whereof the said allotment of land hereby granted conveyed and assured or expressed or intended so to be or any part or parties the said VENDOR shall and will at all times hereafter warrant and defend the title to the said allotment of land morefully described in the Schedule hereto and every part or portion thereof unto the said VENDEE against any and every person or persons whomsoever and that the said VENDOR shall and will at all times hereafter at the request and cost of the said VENDEE make doth and execute or cause or procure to be done executed and perfected all such further and other acts deeds assurances matters and things for better and more perfectly and satisfactorily and effectually conveying assuring and vesting the said allotment of land morefully described in the Schedule hereto unto and in the said VENDEE as by it shall or may be reasonably required.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said VENDOR doth hereunto and to two others from the same tenor and date as these presents set his hand at Mt Lavinia on this Twenty-ninth(29th) day of July Two Thousand and Seventeen (2017).

THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO:-
ALL that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 2 in Plan No. 635 dated 2008.10.15 made by Ishara Mahanama, Licensed Surveyor of the land called DANKOTTA together with everything standing thereon bearing assessment No. 56, Badeggane Road, situated at Kotte within the Municipal Council limits of Sri Jayawardenapura, Kotte in the Palle Pattu of Salpiti Korale in the District of Colombo Western Province and which said lot 2 is bounded on the:

NORTH : by the property claimed by Subani Jayasinghe
EAST : by Lot 1 in the same plan,
SOUTH : by the property of Urban Housing Scheme
WEST : by property claimed by Maleesha Kotelawala and 
containing in
EXTENT : THIRTEEN DECIMAL FOUR NOUGHT 
 PERCHES (A: 0-R: 0-P: 13.40)

According to the Plan No.635 aforesaid and registered under title M 26028/77 at the land registry at Delkanda.

Together with the right of way and other contingent rights in over an along
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 6 depicted in Plan No. 635 dated 2008.10.15 made by Ishara Mahanama, Licensed Surveyor of the land called DANKOTTA (reservation for 5-6 meters wide roadway) situated at kotte aforesaid and which said lot 6 is bounded on the NORTH by Lot 1 and Lot 2, EAST by property of Urban Housing Scheme, and the lake, SOUTH by Samadhi Road and Lot 3 and on the WEST by property claimed by Nimal Herath, property claimed by N. Haradasa and containing in extent ELEVEN Perches (A: 0 – R: 0 – P: 11) according to the said Plan No. 210 Registered under title M 2677/280 in the Delkanda Land Registry.

TOGETHER with the right to use the reservation for drains marked Lot 4 and Lot 7 depicted in Plan No. 635 dated 2008.10.15 made by Ishara Mahanam, Licensed Surveyor.

W I T N E S S E S:-

We do hereby declare that we 
Are well acquainted with the 
Executant and know his 
Proper name occupation 
And residence 

1.

2. 

NOTARY PUBLIC

I, Navinda Navishadhi Pathirage of Colombo in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Notary Public do hereby certify and attest that the foregoing instrument was duly read over and explained by me to the within named vendor ANOMA PILAPITIYA who is known to me and who signed illegibly in the presence of Geema wijesiri of No.10 , Alfred Road, Colombo 10 and Chamodhi Ubesiri of No.1, Letus Avenue, Colombo 10, both of whom signed this instrument illegibly respectively the subscribing witnesses hereto both of whom are also known to me and the same was signed by the said vendor by the said witnesses and also by me the said Notary in my presence and in the presence of one another all being present together at the same time at Colombo on this twenty-ninth (29th) day of July Two Thousand and Seventeen (2017).

I further certify and attest that out of the consideration herein mentioned an amount of Rs. 5.00,000/= was paid in cash and the balance sum of Rs. 20,000,000/= paid on a loan obtained by the purchasers from the Peoples Bank Nugegoda Branch.

I further certify and attest that the duplicate of this Instrument bears the Bank certificate of payment bearing No.78546 dated 10.02.2017 issued by the Peoples Bank, Corporate Branch for Rupees Eight Hundred and Nineteen Thousand (Rs.819,000) favouring Western Province Provincial Council. and that the original of this instrument bears one stamp to the value of Rs. 1/= which stamp was supplied by me.
 
 WHICH I ATTEST
 

DATE OF ATTESTATION
29th day of July 2017
NOTARY PUBLIC