Church of the Gospel Ministries in Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act
CHURCH OF THE GOSPEL MINISTRIES IN SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION) ACT
Arrangement of Sections
1.	Short title.
2.	Incorporation of The Church of the Gospel Ministries in Sri Lanka.
3.	General objects of the Corporation.
4.	General powers of the Corporation.
5.	Board of Elders of the Corporation.
6.	Rules of the Corporation.
7.	Corporation may hold property movable and immovable.
8.	Debts due by and payable to the Ministry.
9.	Corporation, to be a non-profit organisation.
10.	How the seal of the Corporation is to be affixed.
11.	Saving of the rights of the Republic and others.
12.	Sinhala text to prevail in case of inconsistency.
S
CHEDULE
17 of 1994.
AN ACT
to incorporate The Church of the Gospel Ministries in Sri Lanka.
[Date of Commencement:
20
th
June, 1994
]
1. Short title.
This Act may be cited as the Church of the Gospel Ministries in Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act.
2. Incorporation of The Church of the Gospel Ministries in Sri Lanka.
From and after the date of the commencement of this Act, such and so many persons as now are members of The Church of the Gospel Ministries in Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the "Ministry”) and such and so many persons who shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation”), with perpetual succession under the name and style of "The Church of the Gospel Ministries in Sri Lanka”, and by that name may, sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. General objects of the Corporation.
The general objects for which the Corporation is constituted shall be—
(
a
)	to propagate the teaching of The Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ;
(
b
)	to engage in charitable, religious or education activities and for this purpose—
This section of the article is only available for our subscribers. Please
click here
to subscribe to a subscription plan to view this part of the article.