Land Grants (Special Provisions) Act
AN ACT to provide for the vesting in the state, of agricultural or estate land which is vested in the land reform commission under the land reform law; to enable the transfer, free of charge, to the landless, of the lands so vested in the state; and to
provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
LAND GRANTS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT
Arrangement of Sections
1.	Short title.
2.	Power of Minister to vest in the State land vested in the Land Reform Commission.
3.	President may transfer free of charge lands vested in the state under this Act.
4.	Survey of land to precede transfer.
5.	Transfers to be subject to certain conditions.
6.	Execution and authentication of instruments of disposition effecting transfers of State land under section 3.
7.	Authentication of copies of instruments of disposition affecting transfers of State land under section 3.
8.	Registration of instruments of disposition.
9.	Nomination of successor to State land transferred under section 3.
10.	Devolution of rights in State land transferred under section 3, in the absence of nomination under section 9.
11.	Conditions to which a transfer under section 3 is deemed to be subject, to run with the land.
12.	Disposition of land transferred under section 3 without the consent in writing, of the Land Commissioner void and inoperative.
13.	Rectification of errors in instrument of disposition.
14.	Alluvial and other accretions to any land transferred under section 3.
15.	Power to inspect any State land transferred under section 3.
16.	Administration of this Act.
17.	Reference to Land Commissioner in case of doubt.
18.	Regulations.
19.	Provisions of this Act to prevail over any other law.
20.	Interpretation.
SCHEDULE
43 of 1979.
AN ACT
to provide for the vesting in the state, of agricultural or estate land which is vested in the land reform commission under the land reform law; to enable the transfer, free of charge, to the landless, of the lands so vested in the state; and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
[Date of Commencement:
25
th
June, 1979
]
1. Short title.
This Act may be cited as the Land Grants (Special Provisions) Act.
2. Power of Minister to vest in the State land vested in the Land Reform Commission.
(1) The Minister may—
(
a
)	having regard to the need to augment the area of land available to the State, for the purposes of distribution;
(
b
)	with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Land Reform; and
(
c
)	by an Order published in the
Gazette
, vest in the State, any agricultural or estate land which is vested in the Land Reform Commission under the Land Reform Law.
(2) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall—
(
a
)	specify the extent of agricultural or estate land vested in the State by such Order;
(
b
)	make reference to the survey plan made by the Surveyor-General or under his direction in respect of such agricultural or estate land;
(
c
)	specify any servitude attaching to such agricultural or estate land.
(3) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be called in question in any court.
(4) Where any agricultural or estate land is vested in the State by an Order made under subsection (1)—
(
a
)	the State shall, with effect from the date of such Order, have absolute title to such agricultural or estate land free from all encumbrances (other than any servitude specified in such Order); and
(
b
)	the State shall pay to the Land Reform Commission in respect of such agricultural or estate land, compensation of an amount equal to the compensation payable under the Land Reform Law in respect of such agricultural or estate land by the Land Reform Commission to the former owner of such agricultural or estate land.
3. President may transfer free of charge lands vested in the state under this Act.
The President may, by an instrument of disposition substantially in the Form set out in the Schedule hereto, transfer, free of charge, any portion of any land vested in the State by virtue of an Order made under section 2, to any citizen of Sri Lanka over eighteen years of age.
This section of the article is only available for our subscribers. Please
click here
to subscribe to a subscription plan to view this part of the article.