National Health Development Fund Act
Arrangement of Sections
1.	Short title.
2.	Establishment of the National Health Development fund.
3.	Board of Trustees of the fund.
4.	Remuneration of appointed members of the Board.
5.	Powers of the Fund.
6.	Payment to the fund.
7.	Purposes for which the moneys of the Fund may be applied.
7A.	Establishment of auxiliary funds.
8.	Investment of moneys of the Fund.
9.	Officers and servants of the Fund.
10.	Accounts and audit.
11.	Auditor-General's report and statement to be placed before Parliament.
12.	Financial year.
13.	Exemption of Fund from certain dues and taxes.
14.	Officers and servants of the Fund deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code.
15.	 Fund to be a scheduled institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act.
13 of 1981,
17 of 1984,
26 of 1987.
AN ACT
to provide for the establishment of a fund called the, "National Health Development Fund” and to provide for all matters connected therewith or incidental, thereto.
[Date of Commencement:
5
th
March, 1981
]
1
. Short title.
This Act may be cited as the National Health Development Fund Act.
2
. Establishment of the National Health Development
fund.
(1) There shall be established a Fund to be called the Health Development Fund” (hereinafter National referred to as "the Fund”).
(2) The Fund shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection (1), be a body corporate, and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.
3
. Board of Trustees of the fund.
(1) The administration, management and control of the Fund shall be vested in a Board of Trustees constituted as hereinafter provided.
(2) The Board of Trustees of the Fund (hereinafter referred to as "the Board”) shall consist of—
(
a
)	the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister;
(
b
)	the Director of Health Services of the Department of Health;
(
c
)	the Commissioner of Ayurveda of the Department of Ayurveda;
(
d
)	the Chief Accountant of the Ministry of the Minister; and
(
e
)	three other members appointed by the Minister each of whom shall, subject to the provisions of subsections (4), (5) and (6), hold office for such period as may be specified in the letter of appointment issued to him by the Minister. A member appointed by the Minister is in this Act referred to as an "appointed member”.
(3) The Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister shall be the Chairman the Board (hereinafter referred to as the chairman).
This section of the article is only available for our subscribers. Please
click here
to subscribe to a subscription plan to view this part of the article.