DEED 21- LEASE

Navinda Navishadhi Pathirage 
Attorney-at-Law & Notary Public
No.585 A 1/1,Kotte Road,Pittakotte.

No…….

THIS INDENTURE is made and entered into at Colombo on this Eleventh day of August Two Thousand and Seventeen SHEENA TIYANI ILANGAKOON PERERA (holder of N.I.C No. 865250576V) of No.15 Mahanuga Gardens Colombo 03 (hereinafter called and referred to as “the Lessor” which term shall where the context so requires or admits mean and include the said SHEENA TIYANI ILANGAKOON PERERA her heirs, executors, administrators and assigns) of the One Part 

AND M/s. Valoremjuris a Legal Partnership Firm, represented by its Partners Mrs. Suganthie Wijayasuriya Kadirgamar and Mr. Dilith Susantha Jayaweera a partnership duly incorporated in SRI LANKA (upon Certificate Registration No: W/ 205519) and having its Registered office at No: 4/6, Jeswel Place, Mirihana, Nugegoda in the said Republic (hereinafter called and referred to as “the LESSEES”) of the Other Part
WITNESSETH

WHEREAS under and by virtue of Deed of Gift bearing No. 1866 dated 30th July 2004 attested by Dijen Lea de Saram, Notary Public of Colombo the said Lessor became the owner and seized and possessed of or otherwise well and sufficiently entitled to premises bearing assessment No 15/1 Mahanuga Gardens, Colombo 3 morefully described in the "SCHEDULE" hereto

AND WHEREAS the said Lessor have agreed to lease and the Lessees has agreed to take on lease the premises bearing assessment No: 15/1 Mahanuga Gardens, Colombo 3 morefully described in the "SHCEDULE" hereto for and during the term or period of Six (06) years commencing from from 1st day of February Two thousand and Seventeen and ending on 31st day of January Two Thousand and Twenty Three subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and contained.
 
NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSES that in pursuance of the said agreement and in consideration of a sum of Rupees Seven Million One Hundred and Forty Nine Thousand Six Hundred (Rs 7,149,600/-) being lease rental for the said full period of Six (06) years payable as provided hereinafter to hold the premises bearing assessment No: 15/1 Mahanuga Gardens, Colombo 3.
 
ON THIS INDENTURE FURTHER WITNESSETH and it is hereby mutually agreed by and between the Lessor and Lessees as follows:-
NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH :-

That in consideration of the sum of Rupees Seven Million One Hundred and Forty Nine Thousand Six Hundred (Rs 7,149,600/-) of lawful money of Sri Lanka in total for the Six(06) years rental and in consideration of the rents hereafter reserved and of the covenants and agreements hereinafter contained and on the part of the Lessees to be paid done observed and performed, the Lessor doth hereby let lease and demise unto the Lessees the said premises described in the Schedule hereto (hereinafter called and referred to as the “demised premises”) together with the furniture, fixtures and fittings and the movable property affixed or lying therein and shown in the inventory signed by the parties hereto for the purpose of identification.
 
2. TO HOLD the demised premises with all rights and appurtenances thereto unto the Lessees for the full term or period of Six (06) Years commencing from 1st day of February Two thousand and Seventeen and ending on 31st day of January Two Thousand and Twenty Three. 
.
YIELDING AND PAYING THEREFOR by the Lessees unto the Lessor during the said term of Six (06) Years the total lease rental of Rupees Seven Million One Hundred and Forty Nine Thousand Six Hundred (Rs 7,149,600/-) of lawful money to be paid as follows:

For the period 1st February 2017 to 31st January 2018 Rupees One Million Eighty Thousand (Rs 1,080,000/-) to be paid at or before the execution of these presents.
For the period 1st February 2018 to 31st January 2019 Rupees a sum of Rupees One Million Eighty Thousand (Rs 1,080,000/-) to be paid on or before the 1st of January 2018. 
For the period 1st February 2019 to 31st January 2020 a sum of Rupees One Million One Hundred and Eighty Eight Thousand (Rs 1,188,000/-) to be paid on or before 1st of January 2019. 
For the period 1st February 2020 to 31st January 2021 a sum of Rupees One Million One Hundred and Eighty Eight Thousand (Rs 1,188,000/-) to be paid on or before 1st of January 2020. 
For the period 1st February 2021 to 31st January 2022 a sum of Rupees One Million Three Hundred and Six Eight Hundred (Rs 1,306,800/-) to be paid on or before 1st of January 2021. 
For the period 1st February 2022 to 31st January 2023 a sum of Rupees One Million Three Hundred and Six Eight Hundred (Rs 1,306,800/-) to be paid on or before 1st of January 2022. 

3. On the signing of this agreement, the Lessees shall make a Refundable Security Deposit amounting to Rupees One Hundred and Eighty Thousand (Rs 180,000/-) for the full and faithful performance by the Lessees of all the terms, covenants and conditions of the agreement upon the Lesse’s part to be performed, which said sum (or balance thereof not used by the Lessor for purposes hereinafter provided) shall be returned to the Lessees upon the termination of this Lease free of interest and less any arrears of rent, electricity bills, water bills, telephone bills, cable television bills, damages and other charges due from the Lessees to the Lessor, provided that the Lessees has fully and faithfully carried out all the said terms, covenants and conditions on his/her part to be performed. The Lessor may use and deduct from the said deposit or such part thereof as is required to remedy any breach by the Lessees of any of the covenants contained in this Agreement. 

4. THE LESSEES TO THE INTENT THAT THE OBLIGATIONS MAY CONTINUE THROUGHOUT THE TERM HEREBY CREATED COVENANTS WITH THE LESSOR AS FOLLOWS :-

To pay the reserved rent on the days and in the manner aforesaid.
 
To use the demised premises in a careful and proper manner exclusively to carry out and maintain a legal firm.

To keep the premises hereby demised in a clean and sanitary condition and in strict conformity with the by- laws regulations or other rules or laws of the Municipal Council of Colombo and to keep the Lessor indemnified and freed from and against any liability for breach or non performance of any such laws including the laws respecting the sanitation and conservancy of the City of Colombo. 

To pay all meter and other charges incidental to the supply and consumption of water, telephone, electricity and cable charges at the demised premises and copies of receipts for such payments shall be handed to the Lessor at Lessor’s request and to effect at the Lessee’s cost and expense all repairs caused by ordinary wear and tear or repairs to damages caused by any negligence or willful act on the part of the Lessees or any lawful occupants of the demised premises.

To pay the difference between the rates (Municipal Taxes) now existing and any increased or enhanced rates by virtue of carrying the business as a legal firm.
Not to sub-let or sub-lease the demised premises or assign these presents or part with the possession thereof to any person or persons. 

To replace or repair at the Lessee’s cost and expense all inventorised appliances fixtures and fittings in the demised premises that are damaged and/or lost prior to the vacation of the demised premises. 

 To allow and permit the Lessor or her Agents to enter into the demised premises (with prior notice to the Lessees) during the day time to view and inspect the condition of the demised premises.

To keep, maintain and clean the interior and exterior of the demised premises and all additions hereto including the walls ceilings floors door-frames sinks sewers septic tanks and electrical wiring and fans sanitary and water apparatus in the same state repair and condition as at the commencement of These Presents and at all times to maintain the same in good tenantable repair and condition fair wear and tear excepted.

All interior installations and air conditioners fitted by the Lessees shall be fitted or fixed subject to the prior approval of the Lessor and at the cost and expense of the Lessees and the Lessees shall be entitled to remove same at any time paying to the Lessor the cost of repairing any damage that may be caused to the demised premises by such removal

Not to make any alterations or renovations or additions structural or otherwise to the property and premises hereby demised or to cut maim or injure any of the walls or timbers thereof or to permit any of the aforesaid things to be done without the written consent of the Lessor and not to cause any damage to the demised premises. 

To effect all repairs to the demised premises the cost of any single item of repair which does not exceed Rupees Twelve Thousand (Rs.12,000/=) at any one time provided however the Lessees shall not be entitled to claim any compensation from the Lessor for any improvements and/or renovations caused to the demised premises by the Lessees.

Not to store or bring to the demised premises any articles combustible inflammable or of a dangerous nature and not to-do or permit to be done anything on the demised premises provided that this shall not preclude the Lessees from bringing in containers of gas and fuel for domestic use of the Lessees or vehicles of the Lessees.

Not to use the demised premises for any illegal or immoral activities.

The Lessees shall at the request of the Lessor or her agent or representative permit any intending purchaser or Lessees during the last Three ( 03 ) months of this lease and prospective tenant or any surveyor or valuer or agent intending to purchase or lease as aforesaid at all reasonable times in the day after previous notice to the Lessees to enter and view the demised premises and such intending purchaser Lessees or prospective tenant, surveyor, valuer or agent maybe accompanied if desired by an employee or agent of the Lessor.

At the expiration or sooner determination of these presents to hand over peaceful and vacant possession of the demised premises in good order repair and condition and all furniture and fixtures complete and belonging to the Lessor in good order and condition fair wear and tear excepted. 

No pets shall be allowed, even temporarily, anywhere on the leased premises, without the prior written consent of the Lessor. The Lessees will be subject to charges, damages and eviction provisions of this lease if this provision is violated. If a pet has been kept on the leased premises at any time during the lease, the Refundable Security Deposit will be forfeited

The Lessees shall be responsible for any loss accident damage injury that shall occur within the said Premises or caused by the Lessees and in no way to hold the Lessor liable for the same and not to take any claim whatsoever against the Lessor in respect of any such loss accident damage or injury and to indemnify and keep the Lessor at all times indemnified against any claim demand or action in respect of same.

5. THE LESSOR DOTH HEREBY COVENANT WITH THE LESSEES AS FOLLOWS :- 
To pay and discharge all rates, taxes and assessments payable in respect of the demised premises save and except the difference between the rates and taxes provided for in Clause 4 (e) hereof. 

To effect all repairs to the demised premises that exceed Rupees Twelve Thousand (Rs.12,000/=) at any one time other than the repairs referred to in clauses 4 (d) and (g) hereof

To warrant and defend the title to the demised premises and every part thereof and indemnify and saved harmless at all times from all claims demands costs damages losses or outgoing which may be incurred or suffered by the Lessees arising out of the title to the demised premises.

The Lessees duly paying the rents hereby reserved and observing and performing the several covenants and conditions herein on the Lesse’s part contained shall peaceably and quietly hold occupy and enjoy the demised premises during the term hereby granted without any interruption or eviction by the Lessor or any person claiming under her. 

If any of the covenants and conditions on the part of the Lessees herein contained shall not be performed or observed then and in any such cause the Lessor shall give to the Lessees not less than Thirty (30) days notice in writing requesting the Lessees to perform or observed the said covenants or conditions and if on the expiration of the said period of thirty days the Lessees shall not have performed or observed the said covenants then and in any such case the Lessor shall be entitled to give Ninety (90) days notice of Termination of Lease. 

6. PROVIDED ALWAYS AND IT IS HEREBY MUTUALLY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE LESSOR AND THE LESSEES AS FOLLOWS :-

If the rent hereby reserved or any part thereof shall be unpaid for a period of one month after becoming due (whether formally demanded or not) or if there be any attachment on the premises or if the Lessees commits a breach of any of the covenants and conditions herein contained then and in any such case it shall be lawful for the Lessor to re-enter upon the said demised premises or any part thereof in the name of the whole and to have again repossess and enjoy the same and to eject the Lessees their servants agents and all those holding under them therefrom and determine this lease and thereupon this lease shall absolutely cease and determine anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding and the Lessor shall be entitled to claim and recover from the Lessees all monies payable as arrears of rent, electricity, water bills and damages.

The parties hereto agree that the provisions of the Rent Act No. 7 of 1982 as amended do not apply to the demised premises. 

The Lessor may on the written request of the Lessees made not less than Ninety (90) days before the expiration of the term hereof and if there shall not at any time of such request be any existing breach or non performance of any of the covenants on the part of the Lessees hereinbefore contained grant the Lessees a renewal of the Lease of the demised premises for a further period on fresh terms and conditions to be mutually determined and agreed upon by the Lessor and the Lessees at that time
At the expiration or sooner determination of this lease if the Lessees fails to yield up and deliver vacant possession of the demised premises unto the Lessor then the Lessees shall pay the Lessor damages at the rate of Rupees Ten Thousand (Rs.10,000/=) per day from the expiration or sooner determination of this lease until possession is handed over as aforesaid without prejudice to the Lessor’s right to take possession and eject the Lessees from the demised premises or to the Lessor’s right to file action against the Lessees for ejectment from the demised premises. 

Either Party may give Ninety (90) days prior notice to the other in writing and terminate this contract by mutual consent after the first year of the lease. 

Stamp duty, fees for drafting, engrossing and attesting these presents shall be borne by the Lessor and the Lessees in equal shares. 

Any notice required to be given hereunder shall be sufficiently and duly given if sent by Registered Post to the Lessor to No.15 Mahanuge Gardens Colombo 03 and to the Lessees to the demised premises or the offices of the Lessees.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Lessor and the Lessees have set their respective hands hereunto and to three others of the same tenor and date as these presents at Colombo on this 11th day of August Two thousand and Seventeen.

THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO :-
All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 2 A with the buildings standing thereon depicted in Plan No: 779 dated 13th October 2000 made by L. C. B. Rajapakse Licensed Surveyor bearing Assessment No: 15/1 Mahanuga Gardens situated at Kollupitiya within the Municipality and District of Colombo Western Province and which said Lot 2 A is bounded on the NORTH by Lot 2 B on the EAST by Lot 2 C ( reservation for road 4.60 m wide ) on the SOUTH by Lot 1 and on the WEST by Assessment No: 11 Mahanuga Gardens containing in extent Nine Decimal Four Five Perches ( A0-R0-P9.45 ) as per aforesaid Plan No: 779

All that allotment of land marked Lot D ( reservation for road 20 feet wide ) depicted in Plan No: 2771 dated 4th June 1924 made by M.G. De Silva Licensed Surveyor situated at Kollupitiya aforesaid and bounded on the NORTH by Lots A , B, and C in the said Plan No: 2771 on the EAST by re-claimed land from Beira Lake belonging to the Crown , on the SOUTH by premises bearing Assessment No: 21 and Ward No: 1412 called and known as “ Rotunda” belonging to the heirs of the late Lady Obeysekera and on the WEST by Colpetty Road containing in extent One Rood and Seventeen Decimal Six Three Perches ( A0-R1-P17.63 ) and registered at the Colombo Land Registry under A 504 / 300. 

Together with the right of way over the reservation for road described herein below:-

All that divided and defined allotment of land marked Lot 3 (reservation for a roadway 4.60 m wide and being a sub-division of Lot 1 A described above ) depicted in said Survey Plan No: 9314 along Mahanuga Gardens situated al Kollupitiya aforesaid and which said Lot 3 is bounded on the NORTH by Lot 2 on the EAST by premises bearing Assessment No: 15 B Mahanuga Gardens and on the SOUTH by Mahanuga Gardens and on the WEST by Lot 1 and containing in extent two decimal three seven perches (A0-R0-P0.27) or 0.0060 Hectares as per said Plan No: 9314.

THE LESSOR )
SHEENA TIYANI ILANGAKOON PERERA )
(by her Power of Attorney holder )
Nelunika Sheamy Rovena Ilangakoon Perera )
nee Ilangakoon) signed on this 11th day )
of August 2017 in the Presence of ) 

 
THE LESSEES )
SUGANTHIE WIJAYASURIYA KADIRGAMAR )
and )
DILITH SUSANTHA JAYAWEERA )
signed on this 11th day of August 2017 )
in the Presence of )
 
WITNESSES :- 
 
Signed in the presence of us )
and we declare that we are ) 
well acquainted with the )
executants and know their )
proper names and occupations ) 
and residences ) 

I, Navinda Navishadhi Pathirage of Colombo in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Notary Public do hereby certify and attest that the foregoing instrument having been duly read over and explained by me the said Notary to the within-named Lessor SHEENA TIYANI ILANGAKOON PERERA and to the said Lessees SUGANTHIE WIJAYASURIYA KADIRGAMAR and DILITH SUSANTHA JAYAWEERA who are known to me in the presence of Saman Kumara Perera of No. 23, Kotte Road, Nugegoda and Nimal Jayawardena of No. 25/12, Kothalawala, Kaduwela who signed respectively as “S. K. Perera” and “N. Jayawardena” the subscribing witnesses thereto both of whom are also known to me the same was signed by the said Lessor SHEENA TIYANI ILANGAKOON PERERA and by the said Lessees SUGANTHIE WIJAYASURIYA KADIRGAMAR and DILITH SUSANTHA JAYAWEERA all who signed “illegibly” and by the said witnesses and also by me the said Notary all being present together at the same time in Colombo on this 11th day of August 2017.
 
I further certify and attest that a sum of Rs.71,469/= as Stamp Duty paid to the credit to the Account of Commissioner General of Inland Revenue Stamp Duty at the People’s Bank Wellawatte Branch in proof of which I attach Stamp Duty Paying-in-Slip bearing No.Govt/SD/001234 to the Duplicate of this Instrument and to the Original one adhesive stamp to the value of Rs.1/=.

Date of Attestation. Which I Attest
11th day of August 2017 
 
 
 NOTARY PUBLIC